.TH tricubic_get_coeff 3 "January 15, 2004" "version 1.0" "TRICUBIC INTERPOLATION"
.SH NAME 
libtricubic \- Library implementing tricubic interpolation.
.SH SYNOPSIS 
.B include <tricubic.h>

.B char *tricubic_version(void);

.B void tricubic_get_coeff(double \fIa[64]\fP, double \fIf[8]\fP, double \fIdfdx[8]\fP, double \fIdfdy[8]\fP, double \fIdfdz[8]\fP, double \fId2fdxdy[8]\fP, double \fId2fdxdz[8]\fP, double \fId2fdydz[8]\fP, double \fId3fdxdydz[8]\fP);

.B double tricubic_eval(double \fIa[64]\fP, double \fIx\fP, double \fIy\fP, double \fIz\fP);

.B double tricubic_eval(double \fIa[64]\fP, double \fIx\fP, double \fIy\fP, double \fIz\fP, int \fIderx\fP, int \fIdery\fP, int \fIderz\fP);
 
.B void tricubic_pointID2xyz(int \fIid\fP, int *\fIx\fP, int *\fIy\fP, int *\fIz\fP);

.B void tricubic_pointID2xyz(int \fIid\fP, double *\fIx\fP, double *\fIy\fP, double *\fIz\fP);

.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.B tricubic_get_coeff()
computes the 64 coefficients \fIa[64]\fP based on the values of the function f and some derivtives at the 8 corners of the cube. 
.B tricubic_eval()
returns the value of the interpolated function at the point \fIx\fP, \fIy\fP, \fIz\fP. The vector \fIa[64]\fP must be filled by 
.B tricubic_get_coeff()
first. 

The derivatives of f with respect to any combination of variable \fIx\fP, \fIy\fP, \fIz\fP is obtained using the overloaded form of
.B tricubic_eval()
that accepts the degrees \fIderx\fP, \fIdery\fP and \fIderz\fP of each partial derivative. Notice that f is tricubic, so the value of any derivative with \fIderx\fP>3, \fIdery\fP>3 or \fIderz\fP>3 is necessarily 0.

The function 
.B tricubic_pointID2xyz()
is used to identify the corners of the cube. The input \fIid\fP is an integer between 0 and 7 and the output is the value of \fIx\fP, \fIy\fP, and \fIz\fP at the corresponding corner.
.SH DOCUMENTATION
F. Lekien, C. Coulliette and J. Marsden, Tricubic Interpolation, International Journal of Numerical methods in Engineering, Volume ??, pp 10-20, 2004
.SH DOWNLOAD AND SOURCE
http://gyre.cds.caltech.edu/pub/software/tricubic
.SH SEE ALSO 
http://gyre.cds.caltech.edu/pub/software/tricubic/doc
.SH EXAMPLE
See commented example in http://gyre.cds.caltech.edu/pub/software/tricubic/doc/tric.pdf
.SH COPYRIGHT 
.B libtricubic is Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Francois Lekien and Chad Coulliette.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published 
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, 
or (at your option) any later version.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software 
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, 
MA 02111-1307 USA.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to lekien@mit.edu

.SH AUTHORS 
.B Francois Lekien and Chad Coulliette
E-mail : lekien@mit.edu
